exciting excellent okay so this is this
is a quick talk that I gave in on lab
week so protocol went often did like a
whole week together where we we had some
fun but mostly we talked about the
future of ifs and and all of that good
stuff and this was just a quick talk
that I put together from notes so it's
got to be fun anyway if you like X okay
see who has done Jess at some point in
their lives all right has anyone here
worked with the Jess ipfs API a few of
you okay this talk is kind of for you
who's worked with Jess ipfs some people
okay the rest of you
this talk is even more for you because
you're going to learn something so this
is about designing a more ergonomic ipfs
API using new jeaious thingies so what
what am I asking I'm asking like how can
the ipfs API be a bit more appealing to
programmers I believe that we can make
it easier to program for RDFS I believe
that programming for ipfs can be more
enjoyable and I believe that programming
for ipfs can be more exciting and I
believe that solving these these these
problems can encourage developers to use
ipfs even more and so what I'm thinking
about is like if I were gonna be coding
and getting stuff out of ipfs of putting
stuff into it what is the kind of API
that I'd like to use like it what would
i code what would what would be the best
thing the kind of like dream code that I
would like to use and so the thing is I
don't want to just change things on a
whim like there's there's been a whole
bunch of work put into like interfaces
and code that is implementing these
interfaces and ipfs is is like all
callbacks it's all it's all pull streams
under the hood and and I realized
they're kind of the kind of thing that
I'm proposing here and the magnitude of
the of the problem but well when I
started out on this I thought well if
I'm gonna if I'm going to even propose
anything that's slightly different to
what's there I should have some bloody
good reasons for doing it
and then I came up with a few reasons
and I came out with even more reasons
and then I just kind of kept going and
so yeah there's an increasingly large
set of reasons to maybe change some
things and so this is about improving
developer experience and I so what I did
I created a repo of course and I created
a repo called ipfs X it's an
experimental playground for playing
around with like the programmatic API
for talking to ipfs and what it is is
it's just a mapping layer between the
API the the iOS API JSI PFS API exposes
or chess exposes and the API that I want
to that I would like to see and one of
the biggest so it's it's basically I all
like async away but the biggest
difference is making use of async
iterators I'm probably not going to go
over this because we're kind of short
time but what is async it Rea is well
bla bla bla bla bla bla
ok basically a native language feature
that allows us to to to stream data
which is super super rad and right now
like most of the web browsers most of
javascript like runtimes all implement a
teasing Kuwait they all increment
implement async iterators so now it's
quite a good time to do it if we were
because there's no need to transpile and
we don't transpile anything at the
moment which is super rad because it's
just complicated when dealing with
errors and things like that so um so
yeah no transport cool and it means that
we don't need to use nodejs streams or
pull streams anymore and and for that
matter if we if you were already using
pull streams in your in your application
or whatever it's kind of its kind of
like trivial to convert between them I
wrote some modules they're like 20 lines
code each really easy because there's so
many similarities between 4:08 loops and
async iterables and stuff like that
they're very much like pull strings if
there's many parallels I yeah there's
obvious obvious differences but anyway
and the cool thing is if you're using
nodejs streams there's no real kind of
like upgrade path because no js' streams
are now async iterables as well so
you can just pass that in as an argument
to many of these functions and what's
kind of cool is that if you've ever used
the Jess I've FS API we've got like
we've got big API surface area we've got
like three different ways of adding
content they basically do the same thing
but they're like they're add which also
takes streams I had pull stream for like
getting a pulse cream and putting stuff
through it and add readable stream for
like a node.js stream so we don't have
this this kind of big API surface area
anymore and that means and it means that
we don't need to import modules to like
by the pull stream module it's ecosystem
modules like for other things you might
want to do with pull streams you don't
need to for the browser import stuff
like readable stream you don't need like
pump to deal with errors in a pot in a
stream pipeline so that all contributes
to a smaller bundle fewer dependency is
quicker to install super win-win-win and
because we've got a smallest API surface
area there for your tests to run we
don't have to test all these different
combinations of adding because there's
only going to be one add command which
is which will take a bunch of different
arguments but but yeah fewer tests to
run it means that fewer tests to run
means that the tests are going to take
less time to execute and and yeah it's
good it's good good good and then we
have this like the idea of this kind of
interface IP fest core which is like an
interface that you had to fulfill if
you're going to be an IP FS
implementation and if you're gonna do
that like I had to do that because I
built the thing for companion which is
like web dot window ipfs which is which
what this is something that companion
does is it puts ipfs in every web page
so your web page can just use where
window to ipfs but it what it is is it's
a proxy over a post message to a junior
like a an IP FS instance running in
companion and my window door ipfs had to
conform to this interface and so just by
having a smaller API surface area
there's fewer things for me to implement
so it's a lot easier for me to do that
if I wanted to and then JSI PFS is
basically all pool streams under the
hood and then but then when we do expose
like an odious stream
API it's it's there's boilerplate
converting between cool streams readable
streams and we need to import those
modules and now we don't need them so we
can get rid of them smaller bundle less
code you know those sort things and one
of the big big cool things about async
it rules and for a weight of loops is
it's easier to error handler stuff we
don't have to have like a full stream
has a really good way of dealing with
this is in your in your sink you have
like a callback with if you're
collecting stuff then you have a Kulak
with an error and errors are propagated
up and down really well and easy to
catch but in nodejs streams if you have
like pipe you need another module to
listen for all the errors and you don't
know and and propagating those through
to the end is it's difficult but like
with async iterables and for a way of
you just add a try-catch and when when
things go wrong you just catch it and
it's just it's it's way easier which is
really nice the other really amazing
thing for developers is much better
stack traces so the problem with like
callbacks and and like streams and and
all of that is that when you get stack
traces you get stack traces that
sometimes don't have any of your code in
them and that's really frustrating
because they're clips it like async
boundaries and with with async away you
don't get that problem so it's easier to
debug and it's a better developer
experience okay
that was super Whistlestop cool and what
do they look like what is it like okay
so if I'm going to create an IP FS node
now we just have to pass a ipfs a
regular ipfs or a ipfs api to my PFS X
with ipfs you usually have to wait
you're certain event emitting you have
to wait for a ready event before you can
use it one of the things that IVF SX
does which makes things a little bit
easier as we can just a wait for that
thing to be ready and now we can use it
we don't have to like if you are
basically if you're using IP FS you'll
probably write a little kind of helper
function which allows you to wait for it
and this just means that it's done once
in ipfs it's tested it's done right and
there's less that people just don't
implement this over and over again so so
that kind of fun adding content is soup
easy you just call no dad you can give
it a string previously you'd have to
give it a buffer which meant you had to
find some sort of buffer implementation
somewhere give it a string and it will
add that and then we can use this
magical for await because what it does
is no dad just returns straight away an
async iterator and then we can iterate
over the the the whatever comes out of
the other end once it's adding this
content and in this case it's gonna add
one thing and you're going to get a CID
for whatever it creates so that's kind
of frustrating so there's this there's a
shorthand where each iterator that we
return has like a first and a last
method and so if you're adding one thing
you know there's only gonna be one thing
return then you can just a wait on the
first item it's going to be all the last
item that's going to come out of that
iterator so so that's kind of fun and
then so I said earlier the nodejs
streams our async iterators too we can
just add a no jet stream to add to add
content because add takes an interest so
it takes strings it takes buffers or it
takes iterators or async iterators and
so create mutable three crate read
stream it returns a async iterator so
you can just add that and if you want to
add multiple things then you also you
give it an array is an is an iterator
there's lots of things in JavaScript
that we should already iterators array
objects map sets array is one of them so
we just iterate over this and then our
content is and it can be a string a
buffer or an iterator or async iteration
so then then this becomes more useful
here because now we're looping over and
we can collect up our whatever comes out
of our of our async iterator here so so
that's kind of fun
and so you can use generators to create
your own iterator if you want so this
will this will so generators when you
call them will return something an
iterable and you can you can add add
that this is just four ten times
yielding some random bytes so that's
kind of
and then like for an async iterator its
its face similar you can see the
difference here is just a sink and a
promise
so we're saying it's an async generate
an async iterator to be returned and
instead of yielding some a value a yield
a promise which results to a value so
anyway that's kind of just for fun you'd
normally just kind of get hold of that
something to add and then just add it
and once you've added stuff you're
probably gonna want to cut it out so you
just get the cid and then we've got
something similar we just we just cat
out the cid and we were in a for away of
loop again and we get chunks of our file
and we can care them together easy
[Applause]